There is an old-fashioned story that if you're 999
the British equivalent of 911 or 10111 -
there is an old-fashioned story to call that number
your phone will charge battery.
And if you look on the Internet, you'll see some police forces in the UK
sent out press releases saying it was not true.
Don't do it, it stops the emergency lines.
And there are articles and comment boards that attack people who believe this.
How can they be so stupid?
What idiot would believe such a thing?
But the only thing is that it is almost true.
Do you remember Blackberries? They were those phones that business people had
before real smartphones came out.
Their UK headquarters are behind me, here in Slough.
Slough.
To Blackberry had another market reach above 1%
it was not just businessmen who used their phones; Teenagers also have.
BBM - BlackBerry Messenger - was the WhatsApp of its time.
Kits, Free, Unlimited Short Messages,
as long as everyone you knew had a BlackBerry phone -
and as long as that phone had battery power.
When certain types of BlackBerry phones' battery was almost flat
they went into limited "emergency calls only" fashion
No BBM. Nothing.
You'd get nothing useful from it.
It just said "use battery for radio for radio"
This would allow you to call emergency services,
just in case, but nothing else.
It was a pretty sensible idea from the BlackBerry engineers.
But they did it in an unfinished way
and they didn't think about what people actually want to do with their phones.
Because there are emergencies that do not involve the 999 call.
Like being lost, alone or desperate
and just want to reach one person.
Ma. I am sorry.
I made a big mistake.
I went to Slough.
It turned out that, on a Blackberry,
if you made an emergency call and then immediately put it down,
that the radios stayed. The phone was no longer blocked.
With all its connections working. It took quite a few minutes
while using the burdens a bit of power.
Unless you shut it down or shut down the screen.
Then, depending on the model,
You might have to call 999 to unblock it.
You can see where the myth came from.
And it has mobile phone companies in the UK
cost about a pound every time someone
999 phoned by them, even if it was just for a moment
so they weren't too happy with this either.
Now, I'm not saying that there is no sloppy program code, for quick-developed ideas,
is not in the world.
Heaven knows, I've made enough of myself,
But, take a short cut on a phone that millions of people use -
have used millions of people,
And suddenly you have enough false calls coming in
to block actual emergencies.
Small choices that ultimately make a big difference.
I'm going out of Slough now.